All these years we've been building,
building, building. When that
opportunity do come my way, that's when
the magic happens.
What a kill.
Growing up in the Edelman household was
crazy.
Depression, anxiety. Those were things I
had.
I had haters before. I've just gotten
more now.
Legalizing sports gambling. Might as
well legalize cocaine and crystal meth.
So many people wanted Sunny dead.
Question is, who got to him first?
This is the hard work part.
This the part they don't see. [music]
We help people understand football.
Holy goodness.
What a fight.
All
[music]
right, man. So, [__] Normally, we shoot
in Santa Monica or in New York, but
today we made a special [music] road
trip to go see the one and only.
One and only.
Yeah. I mean, we had to drive an hour
and a half in traffic to see Cole.
It don't matter. We had [music] to drive
backwards. I was going to get some get
to his house and ask for these damn
shoes one way or another. That's the
first thing you going to do.
Cole, [music] how you doing? Look, man,
I've been looking is the shoes called
the uh the undefeated pack. We got
[music] to be fresh on the court.
No, but I'm excited. You know what I
mean? Like I said, he's someone that
from the jump, you know, him coming to
LA when I was at UCLA, you got to
[music] play for the McDonald's game.
you kind of saw the early the the
beginning and it kind of just seen him
continue to evolve and continue to be at
one point, you know, the [music]
greatest player in in the game and then
one of the all-time greats, you know.
So, I think to have the chance to sit
down and and chop it up and reminisce
and see what he's got going on post
career now. I think it's just [music]
going to be dope. Not only do somebody
who I, you know, probably my favorite
player of my time,
right, [music]
but uh somebody that I grew up with, you
know, like I said, may able to play
McDonald's game with, but last time I
saw him was when he was able to talk to
my son,
okay,
on his on his uh farewell tour and I
never got a chance to tell him thank
you. So, [music] this will be a great
time to, you know, to pick his brain,
see what he got going on, you know what
I mean? And uh, you know, rap with Bean,
man. that I think everyone thinks that
he and I are enemies or [music] don't
[__] with each other because that [__]
that happened in Orlando with the ball
fake, but that's what kind of really
He ain't like that.
No, that's what really brought us
together, you know? That's what, you
know, he after that season, he hit me up
like, "Yo, you want to be a Laker?" I
said, "Hell yeah." And he said, "Anyone
crazy enough to [__] with me is crazy
enough to play with me." So, I think
there's [music] such like when people
still you don't Kobe doesn't like you,
you guys. I'm just like, it's [music]
it's not even like to be honest with
you. what you're talking about is what
really brought us [snorts] closer and
and made us become friends, you know.
So, we had battles, but then, you know,
as teammates, man, we had some some
crazy [music]
offthe-court fun [__] we did.
You You know what I remember, dog? I was
This is the first time I ever seen Kobe
out. I was in Milwaukee. We played job.
Remember, I was suspended. [music]
Oh, we came to the club.
You and you and you like me and
you called me like, "Bro, I'm going I'm
bringing Co. I'm like, "Man, Co ain't
going out." He's like, "Bro, I'm [music]
telling you."
Yeah.
And I walked in the club.
And Cole was in there. And I couldn't
believe it, bro. [laughter] He like,
"Bro, I'm telling you now. He going out,
bro. I'm telling you. Coming out with
me."
Cuz I was I was in my room, you know, I
was pregame and I went in the room,
burned one real quick. And then I'm
like, "Yo, what's going on, man? Let's
Let's do something." And then he's, "All
right, let's go." We went in all cities.
We went out. We went out Milwaukee.
[music]
Yep. When you called me like, "Bro, I'm
telling you, we going out." Like I
couldn't believe it.
No, we bonded the instantly, man. Like I
said, on and off the court, you know,
[music] we were both going through some
stuff in our personal life. So, it was
just like on the court we bled, but then
off the court we [music] kicked it and
we went out and did stuff and, you know,
rolling with him was a whole another
monster, man. We going to all these
black tie events and you see [music]
every That's kind of when I started I
kind of owe it to Cob is, you [music]
know, kind of started seeing these uh
these Hollywood women, you know what I
mean? And going to events with him. And
once you open that door for me.
So yeah, you ain't got to you ain't got
to you ain't got to open it no more.
Yeah, I'm walk I'mma walk myself in.
I'm going to do my thing. So, you know,
that's kind of like the 2000
when I was separated at the time, the
2010 time.
That was the beginning of something
beautiful.
California love,
man. You already know.
A Laker.
Yeah. And with with the one arguably one
of the greatest Lakers
Yep. of all time.
Yeah. the teammate on the road just his
focus is it doesn't deter he'll go out
and have a good time it's not like he's
going to go out all night and go crazy
but if it's a situation where he does go
out you know what I mean the next
morning he's up early like the
schedule's you know hadn't changed you
know he's someone that you know insisted
on working
have a glass of wine every now and then
huh
the veno
you know what I mean but he'll get out
there and still do his early morning
precise workouts or pre-shootaround
workouts like he was a he was a beast
you know what I mean like he enjoyed
himself, but at the same time, he never
let it take away from his craft. You
know what I mean? And that's what I
think he held people to a standard. You
know, you want to go out, you want to go
have fun, go do that, but don't let that
[__] up what we got going on the next
day.
I don't know if he could have handled
seeing what the kind of [__] we did with
the We Believe team, though. But like
you said, we still came out and did our
thing though, every night. But we was in
the streets every night at that team.
If we was doing that and winning, he
would have respected it cuz that's all
he was about,
right? At the end of the day, it's about
do your job.
But what you do off the court, as long
as you winning,
let's go. All the smoke.
I'm looking forward to this. Obviously,
I think our goal is to have a a candy
conversation and and get some [__] out
of him that he doesn't normally talk
about.
This [__] I'm actually enjoy
playing against and enjoy watching. So,
I'm actually a fan of this [__]
And you can ask him about who deserve
MVP in the McDonald's game. Yes, I have
to get that answer.
If he stamps you, you're good. Cuz I
don't know if I believe it until he cuz
I didn't watch the game. So, if he
stamps you,
if Kobe stamps that I should have won
MVP in the McDonald's 96 All-American
game, somebody need to send me a trophy.
Y'all heard that. You better send that
[__]
I'm excited though. This going to be one
for the books. All the [__]
smoke. Let's
have a great show. Let go.
[music]
Welcome back. All the smoke episode 11
ringing in 2020.
My guy
11. I don't I don't know how to say that
in Spanish. Is it un?
I don't know
how you say that in Spanish.
You played in Mexico, didn't you?
Un
special guest, man. Cob, we appreciate
you, man.
Thank you for your time. Uh, we've been
looking forward to this, man. The fans
have been asking, "You need to get Kobe.
You need to get Kobe." So we we finally
got cold, man.
All right.
We appreciate you, man.
You got it, man.
So, let's get into it, man. What is the
difference between Kobe Bryant post
career and the mamba, the killer we saw
on the court? [sighs]
Well, I think it's just um you know, a
lot of the mentality is still the same.
The industry just changes, right? So,
the same focus, same attention to
detail. Um you it's even more so now
because you know, when you play, you got
to take time off. You got to let your
body heal. you got to do certain things.
You know, in business and in creativity,
there is no off switch
day by day
because your brain's constantly working,
right? So, you know, the similarities
are are there. It's the focus, attention
to detail, and you try to surround
yourself with people that are just as
maniacal as you are about their craft.
And then the differences are I don't
have to put my body through hell every
day.
Yeah. True, true. Uh some of the things
I've seen uh post career that that I
love are obviously you know you coaching
your daughter and then your new
fascination with uh writing novels. Can
you go into detail with those?
Yeah. Well, coaching the kids is is fun.
It just kind of came out of nowhere
because my daughter just decided she
wanted to play about two and a half
years ago, you know. So, um, started
coaching her a little bit and then she
made a local all-star team and that's
when we met the rest of the girls that
are now on the team and, you know, they
all started at the real kind of ground
level, but they enjoyed playing so much.
It just kind of grew into what it is
now. And um, it's it's been it's been a
lot of fun. And then the novel writing
really started just with the kids. The
kids can't keep reading stories that
have no relation to them whatsoever. And
I don't don't mean just from like, you
know, a diversity like a color
standpoint. Not only just that, but from
the fact that they're athletes and
there's no story that that kind of
speaks to athletes. It's all like, you
know, there's princesses and sleep and
Prince wakes you up with the kiss and
all. You know what I mean? Like I'm not
not trying to read my daughters that,
you know, you know, we enjoy that stuff,
but it's not, you know, that's not
reality of it. You're not going to sleep
and then
wake up years later later and be
successful. You know,
you got to work. You got to work. So, I
wanted to create stories that I could
read to them, athletes that go through
that type of stuff.
Right. Tell me what it's like coaching
your daughter, you know, cuz I coach my
boys. We'll be at the same tournament
coming up this weekend. What is it like
for you being on that sideline?
It's fun cuz I get a chance to sit and
watch and ask questions. You know,
that's that's really my job and my my uh
coaching staff's job is to really ask
questions, you know, and let them figure
things out throughout the course of the
game. and you'll win some and you'll
lose some that way. We'll probably win a
lot more if we felt like we would
micromanage how they play the game and
call plays and sets and all sort of
stuff, but we really just kind of sit
back and let them process things and
figure things out because we are playing
for the long game of them being the best
basketball players they can be. But it's
fun to sit there and watch them hoot.
I love it.
You You didn't want an Oscar, you know,
we we have we dream have a dream of
winning an Emmy with our show. You
didn't want an Oscar in the Emmy. What?
Tell me how how did that what did that
feel like to be able to say, you know,
to win an Oscar. You know, of course,
you wanted to be with six rings with
Mike,
but you have something that he probably
he probably never get. You know what I
mean? One of these.
You know what I'm saying? Can't get one
of these. So, how tell me about that.
Uh, you know, it was it's different
because in competition you're you're
it's like it's a direct competitive
thing.
You know who your competitors are. You
know who you face. Like, you know that.
You know what I mean? So, it's like,
you know, it's a it's a direct
competition. And when it comes to the
arts, it's not that you just try to
create the best thing you possibly can
and then see how, you know, in this
case, the Academy responds to it. So,
it's very different. Like sitting there
at Oscar night, like there there's
nothing you can do. Like there's no need
to be nervous. There's no need to cuz
things are what they are. It's out of
your hands. You did the best job that
you could possibly do. And then you go
from there. But the biggest lesson
learned from is you work with brilliant
people that see the world the same way
and magical things happen. And that's
true across industries. You got I got
John Williams and Glenn Keane who have
never met but they are both giants in
their respective industries see their
craft the same way and you put them on a
project together and you know
what was it like for you coming into
this business space overall with all
your success you've had in sports you
know I kind of feel like that next step
in life people either kind of okay they
praise you for what you did and and e
eager to work with you or they're like
oh this [__] thinks because he
won five titles that he can do whatever
he wants. It's a little bit of both,
right? So, like I can get any meeting,
you know, but then it's the followup,
right? I used to get things all the time
where it's, yeah, come in for the
meeting for this company that you want
to build these ideas that you want to
build. That's all cool. And you sit down
and they're trying to pitch you on being
on the show, being in front of the
camera. I'm like, I'm not about that.
Right? So, it kind of it goes both ways.
And so, what we've had to do is just
build it ourselves cuz we just got sick
and tired of it. you know, trying to go
out and partner with people that, you
know, act like they believe in the
vision, but when the push comes to
shove, they really don't. They just want
me and my 20 years.
You know what I'm saying? I'm trying to
put that to bed and build something for
the next 20 years. And the best way to
do that is to do that ourselves,
right?
What was our pivotal moment growing up
where you developed your desire and and
the and the tremendous work ethic I
speak on and mental toughness that you
have? Was there early on pick that up?
I'm trying to remember. I mean, we've,
you know, we had a really competitive
household with my cousins and, you know,
my father and my uncle and stuff like we
was very competitive and you know, you
had to really really work to just
survive like you know that's with
swimming, that's playing basketball,
that's playing video games, it's
whatever. I mean it was a [__] talking
family like
you know when you lose not only lose but
you get embarrassed while you lose you
know what I mean? So, I grew up in that
kind of environment. So, you had to work
hard just to just to kind of keep your
head above water sort of thing.
And I came into the NBA, I was like,
"Man, these dudes really don't work that
hard."
It was pretty It was kind of an eye
opener. It was like,
but you you started off young like, you
know, we we the same age. We grew up,
but like you had a kill list at 13.
I did.
And I know we the same age. I'm glad I
wasn't on it then. I'm glad I wasn't
[laughter] on your kill list then. We
was the same age coming up.
That's like that Billy Madison [__]
Like, check.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Who was on your kill list at 13, bro?
Well, uh, Tim Thomas.
Yeah, of course.
Tim Thomas was. Uh, uh, no, Rip wasn't
because Rip, Rip and I were like both
nobodies.
Yeah.
So, he went to Coatsville and L Mar. We
were nobodyies. So, we played on the
same AA team together.
Um, and so we were really close. So, he
might have had a kill list, too.
So, the kill list was what? Just people
what? Ranked higher than you? ranked
higher cuz I I like going into my
sophomore year I was probably ranked
somewhere in like the top 200
something like that
and then then it kind of went up 150 and
then by the time I was a senior hit
number one
but Jermaine was up there Lester Earl
Holloway Cory Benjamin Mike
Mike Bby you know what I mean you know
that class was
you know I tell you what the first time
I ever I actually ever heard E40 was at
a allameric American camp.
Yeah,
cuz we all hanging out in dorms and back
then it was nothing but Biggie N stuff,
right? So they were they were playing
E40 and shooting crafts and I'm like,
man, what y'all got to show me?
[laughter]
What's up?
What is this? What's going on right now?
You know, so it was fun getting to know
everybody, you know, and then seeing
kind of where we've all going since
then.
Well, you guys played in the McDonald's
game together and Jack has you won MVP,
right? MVP.
I should have won MVP.
You did win MVP, didn't you?
So, see, I'm glad you said that, Cole.
So,
who won MVP? Shaheen Holloway, he had
like 10 turnovers, too, bro. But you
know what got an MVP? Remember the
bounce pass to Lester Earl and he dunked
on Boss? I think that was the big play.
But I had I led the game in scoring
actually was eight for 10 from the
field, three for three from the
three-point line. But our team,
me, you, Rip, Jermaine O'Neal, and uh
Sheen Holloway.
Yeah,
crazy starting five.
That's crazy. I thought you did win MVP.
No, I didn't.
So he loves the fact that you thought he
should have.
But he said that's all that's all I want
to hear.
He wanted that. We talked about this
before. He's like Shaheen Holloway won,
but Cove knows I should have won.
[laughter]
I thought you did.
I did. I did. Shaheen won it.
Oh, damn.
It was dope though. It It was a great
experience because our team though, you
got to let like me, you, Jermaine.
How many made a long career out of it?
All of us. Like, you know what? Rip Rip
has some video. Remember his pops used
to travel around with camcorder all the
time.
Yes.
And so he was showing me some some clips
from his some of his old footage and
watching us knuckleheads walk around. I
posted a picture recently of me, you,
Mike Bby, and Rip at the McDonald's
game.
That's crazy.
That's what me and you first met.
That's nuts.
Yeah, that's when we first met.
Getting better. We getting better. Now,
[laughter]
we talked about this a little bit off
camera when we were talking about
Stephen A. Smith and kind of how the
roles are reversed now and he's kind of
almost in a in a player's perspective
where he's getting criticized and
everything. Was there ever anything as a
player that you remember that was said
about you or written about you that
really kind of stung and hurt throughout
your career?
Uh, you know what's funny? All all of it
does.
You know, a lot of stuff said about me
or, you know, selfishness type of stuff.
It's like, bro, you can't win five rings
being selfish.
Doesn't happen. But I get that's kind of
become the mantra. It's kind of become
the slang, the vernacular, the the the
running joke or he doesn't pass and all
this other crap. Matt, that's okay, you
know, but I'll take those five rings.
Five of them,
right? I'll take five of them.
It's a lot.
It's a I know me and Matt and I know you
too, like I've been misunderstood and I
honestly feel like I missed a a lot of a
couple all-star appearances due to the
brawl.
Sure.
You know, and um I've been misunderstood
because you know me and he know me and
I'm not the person that they they label
me to be after the after being a loyal
teammate. Right.
What's the most misunderstood thing
about you?
I think it's that, man. I think it's the
it's the selfishness or you know
arrogant. Well, maybe not the arrogance
that might be.
You have to be though. You have to be.
[laughter]
You have to be.
Maybe not that. You have to be though.
I mean, you know, when I'm playing, it's
it's a different side of it. I think
it's uh the the the perception of the
way I am on the court is the way I am
off the court. It's two completely
different things, man. Two completely
different things. I mean, I can be an
absolute teddy bear at home with my
family, with my kids, and enjoying that
family time. And um I'm really psychotic
about having that family time and making
sure we're we're doing what we have to
do as a family, but I'm doing school
drop offs and pickups and,
you know, giving my babies a shower and
doing all this stuff. Like I'm making
sure I'm there for him as much as
possible, right? And so, but on the
basketball court, it's a completely
different animal. And I think the
biggest thing is,
you know, I see people saying, "Well, I
don't like him."
You don't know.
And what?
Okay. I mean, who are you?
Right.
You know, like that sort of stuff. But
it's all good. It comes with the
territory.
Have you Have you Hold on. Have you ever
shot a ball from the free throw line?
No.
So, how do you do you feel that you
should be
if you're a top 10 player in the league,
you should ever shoot a air ball at the
free throw line?
Uh, I'm sure it happens.
You haven't? I haven't. I've never been
top 10.
I don't think if you're a top 10 player,
you should never shoot a free a ball
free throw.
Are you referring to something in
particular or
just No, stars. All star period cuz
multiple all star have done it.
Yeah. I I've I've I can only speak from
personal experience, man. I haven't I've
never shot a air ball from the free
throw line.
And Okay. You You haven't? Okay.
No. No. Not even with my left hand.
[laughter]
Not even my left hand. Right.
All right. This year will be when June
rolls around 20 years since you won your
first title. What immediately comes to
your mind? Crazy, right?
Damn. Really?
Yeah. [sighs]
Long time. Whoa.
Oh, man. Uh
[__] No, I remember the just us, you
know, being really excited that we got
through Portland.
They were tough.
What?
Tough. We had we had Bonsie on set a
couple weeks ago and he was telling us
about that series and how back and
forth.
It was a nightmare. It was a nightmare
match up for me, man. Cuz he was I was
really scrawny and like 120 soaking wet
and he would just try to beat the [__]
out of me in the post.
And uh him, Stacy Agman, they really
helped me develop my post defensive
presence cuz that was a weakness. I had
to develop that quite a bit. I remember
just going into the Indiana series, we
were just ready. We were confident. We
knew how we wanted to execute. We knew
what we needed to do and we just tried
to take them out their sets as much as
possible, man. And then, you know,
Jaylen slid his foot under mine and
caused the series to go a little longer
than it should have.
But, you know, ultimately we got it
done.
Any pregame rituals or superstitions
that you had throughout your care?
Nah, you know, I don't have none.
Just go out there and go to war.
I mean, I go out and hoop, man. Like it
like sometimes, you know, like on game
day if I'm tired, I go to sleep. If I'm
not, I won't.
Like walking around, I walk around.
A pre So a pregame nap wasn't essential
for you?
Nah. Like if I was tired, I'd go to
sleep. If I wasn't, I just wouldn't. You
know, sometimes I'd sleep like for 15
minutes on the training table before a
game.
And that's all you need just to reload.
Yeah. Yeah. Cuz I'm already in shape. I
don't need to sleep to be in shape to
ready to go. Like I can run all day
already. My stamina is already where it
should be. So, like whether or not I'm
sleepy or not, you know, like being
sleepy and then being fatigued are two
different things.
I can play the game and be sleepy and
not be fatigued. It's fine.
Interesting.
Lowest moment like uh we I know we had a
couple lowest low moments in our career
where, you know, either things we
control or it was our fault. What's What
was a low moment in your career? I don't
really see you having that.
There was a couple of them. Well, losing
to the Celtics in08 was tough, but
before that, like at the beginning of
the journey was not playing.
So, coming in as a rookie and saying,
"Man, if I knew [__] was going to be
like this, I would have went to school."
Interesting.
Right. Because I felt like my coach Dale
Harris at the time was trying to make
sure he did not show favoritism to the
young kid. And as a result, he swung
completely the opposite direction and
doing things that weren't really fair.
And I mean, not playing, you know? So
like my first two, three years were were
brutal.
Were nightmares.
People don't know that. People don't
know you went through that your first
three years.
No, it was tough. I mean, I you know, I
I I s sit around. I watch all my peers
going out there playing 35 37 minutes.
You know, AI, Ray Allen, they're all
doing their thing. Share Abdul right
here. Everybody's doing their thing. And
I'm sitting here glued to the bench
getting really really pissed off and
ticked off thinking I should have just
gone to college. I mean, that that was
the hardest part.
Yeah. What was finally what was that
breakthrough when it was okay that your
number was called? Did someone get hurt?
He finally just started trusting you.
What was it?
So during the lockout season when the
season started,
Rick Fox had plantar fasciitis on both
feet. He wanted to play somebody else in
front of me and that person got hurt.
And so then he had no choice but to
start me but start me as small forward.
And so this is when like small forwards
were
big
small forwards. This is you know this is
KG. This is from Abdu Raheem. This is
Pip. This is like so I started the first
whatever 10 games at small forward. I
think I started like like seven straight
double doubles or something like that
and then I've been in the starting
lineup ever since.
No looking back.
But I don't I mean I might have who the
hell knows how long when I came off the
bench before Rick didn't get injured. So
[laughter]
it's crazy when you see that.
It was really really rough. It was
really really
especially too like I said I seen I got
a different side because I went to UCLA
almost parallel when you came to LA. So
I would see you on campus. I would see
you working out in the gym and I would
know like
damn this motherfucker's why is he not
playing you mean I looked at it from
like a point of view like I see this
dude work out like people don't play
like he looks like Michael Jordan out
there like I would see he would come in
after our UCLA practice I remember one
time
you had broke your right hand and you
came up to UCLA and did a whole workout
left-handed like you were a left-handed
player and I was just like
what [__] the next season you came back
shooting left-handed shots people like
oh my god he's this I was like no he
worked on that [__] his whole time he
had this hand in the cast. If you watch
if you watch Kyrie, Kyrie get all that
from you.
You just mad.
But I'm not playing,
right?
It's like you sitting down, you not
playing, and you're watching everybody
else kill the league when you know you
should be doing that. It still pisses me
off to this day cuz like ultimately, you
know, what numbers would you have put
up, right?
Cuz everybody wants to go to that. Oh,
let's go to career numbers. Let's go to
career. Somebody wish somebody would
have told me that back then.
3 35 4,000 more points.
You know what I'm saying? So, you know,
those three years of not playing and
sitting on the bench and just watching,
it's frustrating.
Tough. What personal growth did you go
through from 3P with Shaq, he's gone
until you won your next title with with
uh with Pal and the new crew.
I understand how to connect uh the team
more. I didn't have to with Shaq cuz
Shaq was the guy that connected
everybody and you know, still drove a
hard bargain, but he was the jovial one
and connected everybody. And so I figure
out how to do that, but do that in my
own way, right?
You know, with uh with my sarcasm and,
you know, uh dry humor or whatever the
case may be and being authentic with
guys, but still being able to build that
relationship and understanding this is
what it's about. And as a result, we
wind up having the closest team. I mean,
that was the closest team I've ever
played on. Man, it was But that was the
biggest change. What was Matt like as a
teammate? You know, I played with him in
Golden State. Uh it's my brother. Uh
we've been through a lot of stuff on and
off the court. Our mom's a best friend.
I was with him during a tough time when
he lost his mom. Um so our relationship
is deeper than basketball. But what was
he like as a teammate?
Yeah. Um exactly what I thought he was
going to be. [laughter]
Feisty.
Yeah.
Tough. Competitive.
Uh and not afraid of big moments.
Mhm.
You know, that's what I respected the
most. Guys that aren't afraid. You got
to have some cooness. When you playing
with me, you ain't got no coonus, man. I
ain't I ain't messing with
Well, that kind of that kind of leads me
to the next thing because I think people
think there's such a disconnect between
y'all because of the [__] in Orlando.
Oh, you know what? People really think
that.
No, I wanted him because of what
happened. That's what he told me. That's
what he said. [laughter]
He like he say he's like anyone crazy
enough to [__] with me is crazy enough
to play with him. You know what I mean?
So, it was funny though because that was
just a back and forth game and that kind
of just spoke to both of our
competitiveness. You know, I the the
year before you guys had uh beat
Orlando. So, [clears throat] we come
back the next year thinking, "Okay,
we're going to play the Lakers again.
We're getting towards the end of the
season. It's a back and forth game." And
I tell people when I played you, like I
just look forward to it because I mean,
everyone knows how [__] good you are.
But you mentally attack people, too. You
do your little code [__] where you're
elbowing and grabbing, knocking the
elbow me right here, knocking everything
out [laughter] of me.
Everything.
I caught a duck tip. Eling me. I'm just
like, "What the fuck?" And I'm the one
getting foul. I'm the one getting
teased. So, it just came to a pair of
[clears throat] like, man, [__] I might
have to [laughter] fight this dude. You
know what I mean? Like, [__] basketball.
[__] everything. So, [snorts] the play
was crazy cuz I literally just faked the
ball and it wasn't like thought of or
anything and you and I didn't realize
how close it came to your face.
Obviously, you didn't move, but then
when I saw after like that [__] was,
[laughter]
you mean like your eyelashes touched
that [__] and this [__] might
have been the only person on the
[laughter] planet that like you flinch
off some regular [__] like I put a whole
basketball in his face after we had
really been going through and he just
[laughter]
I was I was telling a story about we was
in San Antonio. This is my second time.
I turn around and shoot a jumper and you
hit my whole arm. The referee's right
there. Don't call nothing. You take the
ball, haul up court, right? So, you know
me, I'm always arguing with the ref. I'm
in a full argument with the ref, but I'm
guarding you at the same time. And so,
you start telling me, "You better pay
attention, [__] [laughter] You
better pay attention." So, I'm arguing
with the ref trying to listen to you.
You shoot the [__] from the logo
net. Give me a look. Then the referee
give me the same little look. Like I'm
like, "So [laughter] look, this what
made it worse. Then Pop sub right out."
Of
course he did.
I'm like, "Oh [__] you going up at 69.
I can't get my gift back."
Hey man, I just try to [__] with y'all
as much as possible. [laughter] So I
knew about, you know, like you know,
y'all coaches, you know, Pop, Gundy,
man, you [__] coaches crazy, man.
They're awesome, but they're crazy in a
little, you know, they like. Yeah. Yeah.
So I just tried to do what I could to
take you guys out of the game,
you know? You know, even if it meant
like your replacement person that was
coming, if you guys did a better job
guarding me.
Yeah.
Then I'd be comfortable with that.
Just to Yeah. Let them come in and guard
me. Yeah. They do a much better job than
these two guys.
First was Bruce Bow and then me and
somebody else. He's just knocking us all
off.
Yeah. And then you wait and wait and
then you roast them and then you
[laughter] guys are over there like,
"What the [__] am I doing over here?"
[laughter]
That's how it happens.
A lot of long. But my whole thing with
you was, you know, to me, you never good
defense never going to stop great
offense. I just wanted to make you work,
you know what I mean? So, you know, with
me, there was there was going to be hard
fouls. There's going to be no easy
layups. If you shot fake me too many
times, I'm just going to foul you. [__]
it. I'm just going to foul you hard. You
know what I mean? And that's what I
explained to people like great offense
is always going to be great defense. You
just want to make them work for
everything. So, if you scored 30 points,
I wanted you to take 30 shots. You know,
that kind of thing. So, that was
we went back and forth from threes when
we was in go to state. That was in LA.
I made the first he looked like, are you
serious? Hit a shot all second half. one
of them. [laughter]
This [__] got hot.
Have you ever sat down and had like a
real off the camera uh combo with MJ?
Oh, yeah.
What What is that? What What is that
like
looking in the mirror?
No, it's it's fun. I mean, it's fun. No,
we're we're really different. It's
crazy. Like, he he'll he'll compete
to you.
Anything.
To you, y'all different.
I mean, I guess I mean like he he'll
compete with any and everything. I won't
I only compete with things that I really
am good at. Like, I'm not just going to
compete on something you don't know yet.
Yeah, I'm not going to do that. He'll
compete at everything.
You know, he'll uh you know, he'll talk
basketball all day long and non-stop and
compare. Well, what would have happened
if you know my 911 against your 03 and
you know like what's this?
What would have happened in your
opinion?
Come on. You can't ask him that, man.
I want to know would it been complete
dominance? Would it have been seven game
series? Like what would it have been?
what what what he started the
conversation with was well I would have
destroyed you know [laughter]
stuff and you know listen I just I just
said listen just remember who you
talking to
and he just started laughing he's like
I'm just messing with you I'm just
messing with you and then we just kind
of moved on so
that's dope
but it it would been it would have been
fun
that's dope that's dope man just to even
know that y'all had that conversation is
dope
oh yeah
how bad I remember playing with you your
whole thing is You said, "I want to sit
at the table with MJ."
Yeah.
Meaning you wanted that six ring. What
did it mean not to be able to get that?
Oh, it pissed me off,
you know, but things are what they are,
you know? You got to you you push for a
goal and my original goal was to try to
win eight
eight and you push for it and you push
for it and you push for and you do the
best you can, but at the end of the day,
you can be comfortable with the results
and where they landed and where they
ended up. And so, you know, that's the
most important thing. That's why I can
be really really comfortable with the
career that I've had because, you know,
I worked as hard as you possibly could.
Mhm.
And that's it.
You and Shaq were able to win three
together. Obviously, there's been back
and forth of, you know, what he was
like, what you were like, whatever. But
if you guys were on the same page,
connected mentally, how many do you
realistically feel like you could have
won?
Yeah, it probably I mean, San Antonio
was tough. They were they were tough.
And so, like when the playoffs came
around, it wasn't like Shaq and I
weren't on the same page. when the
playoffs came around, we always were on
the same page. We just got beat.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying? So, like we
we've, you know, the bigger question
would should be how many would we have
won
if uh the Spurs weren't the Spurs,
you know, cuz you probably would have
ran the team for a decade. He was
he was killing he was by himself that
year.
No, he was lights out. He was lights
out, right? And so the talent, the
coaching, everything in San Antonio was
kind of a perfect storm. And so if they
weren't in the picture, we probably
would have run 10 in a row.
And they probably say the same thing
about us. [laughter]
That's crazy.
You got a lot of young players that's
reaching out to you now. Yeah.
You know, your advice to them like like
what you tell them like how does that
feel?
Depends what they ask. I mean like a lot
of them will come and ask about their
game and things that they should do and
things like that. And I say listen, you
got to you know the answer to that. I
don't know. Like you know what makes you
uncomfortable when you play. I mean, I
think that's the biggest thing for kids
nowadays is that they want to rely on
coaches too much and workout guys,
you know, which is fine to have them
help you work out, but you have to tell
them what you need, right? You have to
be able to say, "Okay, I feel
uncomfortable with this." And if you
don't know, then you're not as prepared
as you should be,
right? You need to know what your
strengths and weaknesses are first. And
then, you know, I can tell you some of
the things, some of the rhythmic things
or some of the exercises or how much
repetition you need to be doing on
certain things, but you got to know your
game.
Where did that come from, though?
Because you see, I mean, obviously one
of the greats, you know, is where you
rank, but I really see, you know, with
your academy out there in Thousand Oaks,
like you open up your doors and your
arms for players to come in and and
where did that
come from that that giving back wanted
to come from? Really?
Well, the guys that came before did the
same thing for me. You know, I' I've had
really in-depth conversations with Jay
West and talking about things. Same
thing with MJ. You know, I've had great
mentors, Elijah. I've had guys all time
greats. Bill Russell, man, we talked a
lot about how to win championships, how
to lead. And so, I felt like it's it's
my job to try to pass that information
on to the next generation and then see
the game develop and see it grow.
You know what I mean? It's it's amazing
to look back and see what some of these
athletes are doing now, right? Whether
it's the generation of uh James Harden,
uh Luca Donuch now, and some of the
player like it's fun to sit back and
watch the game grow and uh that's why I
do it.
Who are some of the younger players or
or players in the league right now that
you do follow when you get a chance to
watch?
You know, it's funny. I wind up. So
before Gigi got into basketball, I
hardly watched it,
but now that she's into basketball, we
watch it's it's on every night.
She wants to watch it, too.
It's on every night. I love it.
It's on every night. And And I mean
every game. I mean, she she asked me to
get the league pass on her phone and
everything.
Oh, yeah.
She watches everything. So, you know,
we'll watch She'll like She likes
watching Trey Young a lot. She watches
Luca a lot. She watches James. She
watches Russ. I mean, she watches Brian.
She watches I mean, she watches
Mhm. Who would you who who you would
watch? She watches.
She watches who I would watch, I guess.
I mean, and there's so many young
talented players out there. It's uh it's
amazing. And when I took her to the
Laker game, that's the first Laker game
I've been to, I think, since my jersey
retirement
really.
And um we just had so much fun because
for the first time, I was seeing the
game through her eyes.
It wasn't me sitting there, you know, as
an athlete or a player or something like
that and then, you know, it's it's like
about me and I don't like that. It was
her like she was having such a good time
and the players were coming up and
saying hi to her and
you know and Brian was talking about her
fade away and all you know it it was it
was exciting and she had such a great
time as a father you just
that's all you want that's all you can
ask for.
Yes. Yes.
Being a father with girls I have girls
we both have girls.
When it's time for that first date they
going to get that mom book 81 point
stab. You going to get the boy to stab
like look bro I I put 81 on the court.
Don't make me put 81 of these on you.
[laughter]
you know, uh
I think it's implied.
I think it's implied. I think it's
already there, you know, and I think
Vanessa honestly drives a harder bargain
than I do when it comes to that
really
that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So, you got to
get past that line of defense first.
Yeah. Moms don't, you know,
that's national security.
Yeah. Once you get past that, now you
got to deal with the real big big big
dog and that ain't going to be nice. You
know what I'm saying? So, but no, it's
good, man. We just try to raise our
girls to be um strong, independent
women. You know what I'm saying?
Hold themselves to really high
standards.
Uh selfrespect, things of that nature.
And you just trust that you've raised
them the right way.
You and Vanessa have been going for 20
years. Yeah.
Tell me what I mean with with the height
of your career and who you are, how
what's your guys' secret sauce, man.
Nothing's perfect, but you guys have
seem to make it work. just just
commitment and competitiveness of we are
going to succeed,
you know, like we've seen uh couples
that have been like 85 years old,
you know, and and you look and you're
like, "Oh man, such an old sweet couple,
you know, and all sort of stuff." And
I'd go and I'd talk to him cuz I want to
know. And one one time the guy goes,
"Yeah, it's great, but I mean, she just
kicked me out of the bed last night. I
was sleeping on the couch [laughter]
last two nights."
I'm like, it don't change, man. It don't
change. I've been married, you know, 70s
something years, man. It doesn't change.
So, it's a constant up and down, the eb
and flows of relationships, but that's
also the beauty of it and having the
persistence and the determination to
work through things.
Very, very tough things. And, uh, we've
been able to do that.
Commitment. That commitment means
everything.
Pass.
Last thing before we get out of here,
the state of the Lakers.
Yeah.
With AD and LeBron, I think they've
turned the corner. Um, you know, hats
off to uh Rob and in the front office
who've kind of orchestrated this team,
but what do you think of first them as a
duo, but then the state of the Lakers?
Yeah. Well, I I think I think people got
to uh uh should really sing Rob's
praises.
Absolutely.
I mean, cuz they I mean, they were they
were they were like
killing them. They were
I was the one that spoke I was one of
the people, like I said, when I spoke
cuz you know me, I'm straight from the
cuff, you know, even though I know Rob
and I've seen him at games and we've
shook hands since, but I was just like,
you know, it looks like a disaster right
now. and they navigated through and put
parts together that work,
but they seen the big picture when
nobody else didn't.
But but that's the point though, right?
It's like being able to stay the course.
And you know, Rob and I have talked
about that stuff. Like we and I talk, we
don't talk about,
you know, this move or that move. It's
more so him as a friend is just saying,
"Rob,
you've been there with me. Now it's just
you going through it." And you know how
we handle it is you just stay the
course. All the storms going on and you
just stay here. Just do your job. Do
your job. Do your job. Do your job. But
man, I mean, what he's done with that
team in two years,
from the contracts that they once had
and were tied up to to what they have on
this roster now, I mean, they are the
biggest team that I probably ever seen.
Their length,
old school big, too.
Old school big, tough, tough, um,
athleticism. [clears throat]
So, they they look fantastic. I think
the biggest thing for them and, uh, what
they really need to invest in is health.
making sure their strength training is
where it should be, making sure
physically they're always where they
should be. They got Judy over there.
Judy Judy's over there full time now.
She's one of the best time. She's the
best. And so I think that's the biggest
thing for them is just health. If
they're healthy, you know, it's going
to, you know, it's going to be a hell of
a freeway series here.
Yeah. So that's you feel like it's going
to be Lakers and Clippers coming out of
the West.
It looks like it. It looks like it. I
mean I you know that that Clippers team
is uh well put together too man. They
got they got dogs man that ain't scared
of nothing. [laughter]
Before we close on a show previously I
sent you a shout out.
Um [laughter]
so me and my son's been trying to find
this undefeated pack.
Okay.
You got to step send me in the right
direction, bro. We need them.
The right direction is right here.
Yeah. Right here.
Depends depends what the what sizes what
size they are. See, soon as I walked in,
the first person got dusted ones off you
got on. I'm a big time shoe fan of
yours, bro. But the undefeated pack, I
need them. We need them. We may have
some here.
This is Jack.
This is Jack's begging segment. He
always has a segment where he tells MJ,
"I need my boxes back." So, you were
next on the list, man. But we just We
really appreciate your time, man. Thank
you, bro. My pleasure for having it,
bro.
I can't believe you two guys are doing
media.
Yeah. And doing it good.
Doing it great. Great.
That's it, man. Man, that's a wrap.
Episode 11. Uh, man, we hope you guys
enjoy it. We can't thank our guests
enough. One of the greatest of all time,
Kobe Bryant, Jack, we did it.
Did it again, baby.
Your hands aren't soaking wet.
Congratulations. You did, man. Make sure
you check this out. Showtime basketball
YouTube channel and all platform
streaming podcast.
Onset.
All these years we've been building,
building, building. When that
opportunity do come my way, that's when
the magic happens.
What a chaos. [screaming]
Growing up in an Edelin household was
crazy.
Depression, anxiety. Those were things I
had.
I had haters before. I've just got more
now.
Legalizing sports gambling. Might as
well legalize cocaine and crystal meth.
So many people wanted Sunny dead.
Question is who got him first?
This is the hard work part.
It's the part they don't see. [music]
We help people understand football.
Holy goodness smokes.
What a fight.
Power. [screaming]
All this power.